README.md, before:

# PAI - Paradox Alarm Interface

Middleware that aims to connect to a Paradox Alarm panel, exposing the interface for monitoring and control via several technologies.
With this interface it is possible to integrate Paradox panels with HomeAssistant, OpenHAB, Homebridge or other domotics system that supports MQTT, as well as several IM methods.

It supports MG/SP/EVO panels connected through a serial port, which is present in all panels (TTL 5V), or through a USB 307 module. It also has __beta__ support to connections using the IP150 module, both directly (firmware version <4.0), and through the SITE ID (firmware versions >4.0).

Support for Magellan and Spectra panels is very stable. Support for EVO panels is being added, so YMMV. If you find a bug, please report it.

For further information and detailed usage refer to the [Wiki](https://github.com/jpbarraca/pai/wiki).

On Android, if you install [MQTT Dash](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.routix.mqttdash), and [follow the instructions](https://github.com/jpbarraca/pai/wiki#mqtt-dash) you will automatically get a panel like this:
![mqtt_dash](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/497717/52603920-d4984d80-2e60-11e9-9772-578b10576b3c.jpg)

## How to use

### Docker

If you have docker running, this will be the easy way:
```
docker build -t pai .
docker run -it -v <projectFolder>/pai.conf:/etc/pai/pai.conf pai
```

### Manually

1.  Download the files in this repository and place it in some directory
```
git clone https://github.com/jpbarraca/pai.git
```

2.  Copy ```config/pai.conf.example``` to ```/etc/pai/pai.conf``` and edit it to match your setup. The file uses Python syntax.
```
cd config
mkdir -p /etc/pai
cp pai.conf.example /etc/pai/pai.conf
cd ..
```

Alternatively see [#Configuration](#configuration) section for supported file locations.

3.  Install the python requirements.
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

If some requirement fail to install, this may not be critical.
* ```gi```, ```pygobject``` and ```pydbus``` are only required when using Signal
* ```Pushbullet.py``` and ```ws4py``` are only required when using Pushbullet
* ```chump``` is only required when using Pushover
* ```paho_mqtt``` is only required for MQTT support
* ```pyserial``` is only required when connecting to the panel directly through the serial port or using a GSM modem.


## Configuration
See [config/pai.conf.example](config/pai.conf.example) for all configuration options.

Configuration file should be placed in one of these locations:
  - /etc/pai/pai.conf
  - /usr/local/etc/pai/pai.conf
  - ~/.local/etc/pai.conf

### EVO specifics
As project was initially designed for SP/MG panels. EVO panels require some configuration fine tuning.

Set these settings
``` python
STATUS_REQUESTS = list(range(1, 6))

PARTITIONS_CHANGE_NOTIFICATION_IGNORE = [
  'arm_full',
  'exit_delay',
  'all_zone_closed', 
  'ready',
  'stay_instant_ready',
  'force_ready',
  'entry_delay',
  'auto_arming_engaged'
]
```

## Running
```
python3 run.py
```

If something goes wrong, you can edit the configuration file to increase the debug level.


## Tested Environment

Tested in the following environment:
* Python > 3.5.2
* Mosquitto MQTT Broker >v 1.4.8
* OrangePi 2G-IOT, NanoPi NEO, and Raspberry Pi 3 through their built in Serial Port (with a level shifter!), or a USB RS232 TTL adapter (CP2102, PL2303, CH340, etc..)
* Ubuntu Server 16.04.3 LTS
* Paradox MG5050, SP7000 and EVO panels
* [Signal Cli](https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli) through a DBUS interface
* Pushbullet.py
* SIM900 module through a serial port

## Authors

* João Paulo Barraca - [@jpbarraca](https://github.com/jpbarraca) - Main code and MG/SP devices
* Ion Darie - [@iondarie](https://github.com/iondarie) - Homebridge integration
* Jevgeni Kiski - [@yozik04](https://github.com/yozik04) - EVO devices


## Acknowledgments

This work is inspired or uses parts from the following projects:

* Tertiush at https://github.com/Tertiush/ParadoxIP150v2
* Spinza at https://github.com/spinza/paradox_mqtt


## Disclaimer

Paradox, MG5050 and IP150 are registered marks of PARADOX. Other brands are owned by their respective owners.

The code was developed as a way of integrating personally owned Paradox systems, and it cannot be used for other purposes.
It is not affiliated with any company and it doesn't have have commercial intent.

The code is provided AS IS and the developers will not be held responsible for failures in the alarm systems, or any other malfunction.

Commit message:

#62 SERIAL_BAUD setting for EVO serial connection

README.md, after:

# PAI - Paradox Alarm Interface

Middleware that aims to connect to a Paradox Alarm panel, exposing the interface for monitoring and control via several technologies.
With this interface it is possible to integrate Paradox panels with HomeAssistant, OpenHAB, Homebridge or other domotics system that supports MQTT, as well as several IM methods.

It supports MG/SP/EVO panels connected through a serial port, which is present in all panels (TTL 5V), or through a USB 307 module. It also has __beta__ support to connections using the IP150 module, both directly (firmware version <4.0), and through the SITE ID (firmware versions >4.0).

Support for Magellan and Spectra panels is very stable. Support for EVO panels is being added, so YMMV. If you find a bug, please report it.

For further information and detailed usage refer to the [Wiki](https://github.com/jpbarraca/pai/wiki).

On Android, if you install [MQTT Dash](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.routix.mqttdash), and [follow the instructions](https://github.com/jpbarraca/pai/wiki#mqtt-dash) you will automatically get a panel like this:
![mqtt_dash](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/497717/52603920-d4984d80-2e60-11e9-9772-578b10576b3c.jpg)

## How to use

### Docker

If you have docker running, this will be the easy way:
```
docker build -t pai .
docker run -it -v <projectFolder>/pai.conf:/etc/pai/pai.conf pai
```

### Manually

1.  Download the files in this repository and place it in some directory
```
git clone https://github.com/jpbarraca/pai.git
```

2.  Copy ```config/pai.conf.example``` to ```/etc/pai/pai.conf``` and edit it to match your setup. The file uses Python syntax.
```
cd config
mkdir -p /etc/pai
cp pai.conf.example /etc/pai/pai.conf
cd ..
```

Alternatively see [#Configuration](#configuration) section for supported file locations.

3.  Install the python requirements.
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

If some requirement fail to install, this may not be critical.
* ```gi```, ```pygobject``` and ```pydbus``` are only required when using Signal
* ```Pushbullet.py``` and ```ws4py``` are only required when using Pushbullet
* ```chump``` is only required when using Pushover
* ```paho_mqtt``` is only required for MQTT support
* ```pyserial``` is only required when connecting to the panel directly through the serial port or using a GSM modem.


## Configuration
See [config/pai.conf.example](config/pai.conf.example) for all configuration options.

Configuration file should be placed in one of these locations:
  - /etc/pai/pai.conf
  - /usr/local/etc/pai/pai.conf
  - ~/.local/etc/pai.conf

### EVO specifics
As project was initially designed for SP/MG panels. EVO panels require some configuration fine tuning.

Set these settings
``` python
STATUS_REQUESTS = list(range(1, 6))

PARTITIONS_CHANGE_NOTIFICATION_IGNORE = [
  'arm_full',
  'exit_delay',
  'all_zone_closed', 
  'ready',
  'stay_instant_ready',
  'force_ready',
  'entry_delay',
  'auto_arming_engaged'
]
```

If you use Serial connection you need to set *SERIAL_BAUD*:
``` python
SERIAL_BAUD = 38400 # or 57600 if you have changed default setting in Babyware
```

## Running
```
python3 run.py
```

If something goes wrong, you can edit the configuration file to increase the debug level.


## Tested Environment

Tested in the following environment:
* Python > 3.5.2
* Mosquitto MQTT Broker >v 1.4.8
* OrangePi 2G-IOT, NanoPi NEO, and Raspberry Pi 3 through their built in Serial Port (with a level shifter!), or a USB RS232 TTL adapter (CP2102, PL2303, CH340, etc..)
* Ubuntu Server 16.04.3 LTS
* Paradox MG5050, SP7000 and EVO panels
* [Signal Cli](https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli) through a DBUS interface
* Pushbullet.py
* SIM900 module through a serial port

## Authors

* João Paulo Barraca - [@jpbarraca](https://github.com/jpbarraca) - Main code and MG/SP devices
* Ion Darie - [@iondarie](https://github.com/iondarie) - Homebridge integration
* Jevgeni Kiski - [@yozik04](https://github.com/yozik04) - EVO devices


## Acknowledgments

This work is inspired or uses parts from the following projects:

* Tertiush at https://github.com/Tertiush/ParadoxIP150v2
* Spinza at https://github.com/spinza/paradox_mqtt


## Disclaimer

Paradox, MG5050 and IP150 are registered marks of PARADOX. Other brands are owned by their respective owners.

The code was developed as a way of integrating personally owned Paradox systems, and it cannot be used for other purposes.
It is not affiliated with any company and it doesn't have have commercial intent.

The code is provided AS IS and the developers will not be held responsible for failures in the alarm systems, or any other malfunction.
